---
title: Collecting some data
layout: post
---
The idea of community is often taken for granted, seen as something ready-made and commonly understood by everyone. High-rise buildings, however, suggest some very particular ideas of community that are somehow different from, for example street communities, neighbourhood communities or even online communities.  There is a (perhaps optimistic) belief that master-planned and urban residential communities, under the right conditions, will come to adopt attributes commonly associated with out more traditional notions of community: sociability, shared interests, and shared values.  Once established, it is argued, communities will reap the benefits of an increased ‘social capital’; i.e. the collective and economic value brought about by cooperation between individuals and groups.    A limited set of studies have been undertaken that consider whether the online space might act as a catalyst for achieving this particular notion of “community”.   We argue that there are only a few examples of residential communities with an active, sustained online presence.

To consider this a little further, we’ve started to collect data on open forums from high-rise and high-density communities to analyse how they use technology to communicate.  In doing so we aim to shed light on a few questions: In what ways do we see community being enacted in high-rise living? What are the particular material, legal, social, etc. qualities that entangle to ‘perform’ community? How are these sustained across different buildings and over time?