---
title: The experience of living in highrises
layout: post
---
There is a tension between the joy and convenience that residents get out of a central, lively location and the troubles that come from high-rise and high density living.  Although the end purpose of high rises and high density residential developments is to offer homes for large numbers of people, the initial and immediate goals lie elsewhere.  Planners are keen to woo star architects to offer the chance to design iconic buildings, to help promote a region within a global marketplace.  Developers are keen to sell as many units as possible, often presenting buildings not just as homes, but as lifestyle choices: complete readymade living experiences with pools, gyms, restaurants and cinemas.  Inevitably, the vision promoted by marketing companies won’t faithfully reflect the reality of day to day living. 

Yet this division between presentation and reality is more profound than clever marketing.  Building design, resources and management processes are hard baked into operations early on; well before any resident steps foot in a building.  And the character of “living” will always be a condition of what has been designed.  Yet the early motivations for design choices can be at odds with the wants and needs of the occupant community.  Examples include an iconic building in London’s Docklands with no effective facility for removing rubbish from apartments, having to deal with rubbish piling up in corridors, or a high-density riverside estate where the ongoing maintenance of the pool and gym lead to high service charges and a continuous battle with un-authorised users.  

The point at which occupants are engaged and consulted to reflect and steer the development to meet their needs rarely comes, making it possible for poor design choices to proliferate from one building project to the next.   Moreover, any feedback channels that perhaps should exist (between those that live in a building, those that manage it and those that design and build it) would be sensitive.  The significant majority of apartments in higher-end residential buildings (in the order of 90%) are tenanted (i.e. not lived in by the owner).   It can therefore be more important, from an owner’s point of view, that a development maintains the *appearance* of offering high standards of living (security, relaxation, comfort, privacy and fulfilment); whether or not this is reflected in reality.   